Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about
Bitcoin.
The 4-year cycle strikes again. If you
guys like the content, make sure you
subscribe to the channel, give the video
a thumbs up, and also check out the sale
on IntoTheCryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Also, we are putting on the first ITC
conference in Miami. Would love to see a
lot of you guys there. So, be sure to
check that out. Link is in the
description below.
Let's go ahead and jump in.
Now, the 4-year cycle is
and has been a heavily debated topic in
in Bitcoin.
What I find fascinating in general
is that a lot of the people that sort of
mock the 4-year cycle for the last 8
months, or mocked it 8 months ago,
continue to mock it.
And
sometimes I find I find it very
interesting cuz I'm like, "Well, what
would convince them?"
But, here's the thing. I I've been in
that I've been in that position before,
cuz I didn't always believe in it
either, believe it or not, right?
What I would say is this.
When you're wrong about something
like we all are at various points in our
investing career,
when you're wrong about something,
the temptation
to want to mock the thing that is
proving you wrong is very, very high
because the alternative
of admitting you are wrong
feels almost
you know, insurmountable, right? Like it
The idea of saying the words like, "I'm
wrong about this." For a lot of people,
it just simply doesn't compute. They
don't want to do that. And so, they kind
of double down and and and then they
just start getting mad. But, here's the
thing that we all should learn as as
investors, and I've had to learn this as
well,
is that we're all going to get things
wrong, and you shouldn't let one wrong
call define you, you know?
Just
admit your mistake, admit mistakes, and
move on like I've had to do many, many
times.
So,
I see what people are doing with the
four-year cycle
and and kind of now they're mocking it.
Now they're saying, well, you know,
there's no reason to buy Bitcoin if it
just follows to something as simple as a
four-year cycle. But, one of the biggest
rebuttals I would have to that is
investing in the stock market has been a
great idea for for you know, a long
time, decades, decades, and decades,
like forever, basically.
And yet, there's also a a four-year
cadence to the stock market as well.
And, you know, imagine if you told
someone that the stock market was a bad
investment because it bottoms
approximately every four years.
Like, the idea would seem kind of
absurd, right? Like, why why can you not
buy something just because it bottoms
approximately every four years?
That doesn't mean anything. Like, it
it's kind of a silly idea to think that
that that Bitcoin will somehow be immune
to bear markets just because it's a good
asset. I mean, all assets go through
bear markets, no matter how good they
are. Because you go through uh times of,
you know, over growth speculation,
and then you have fear and and doubt
take over for long periods of time, then
you go to lower valuations than than
what makes sense. So,
I somewhat empathize with those guys,
but I would also
implore them
to
make the adjustment
and and and figure out where they made
the mistake so that they don't make the
same mistake in the future. That's the
worst thing is if you do make a mistake
and you're not you're not allowing
yourself to be wrong in your own mind,
then you're more likely to make the same
mistake again. Whereas, if you can tell
yourself you were wrong about that, then
it helps you make a better decision next
time.
So, that's where I I I I just wanted to
say that before we get really into the
video, because I've seen a lot of a lot
of people kind of go through that.
So, right now Bitcoin is sitting at
around 63, 64k. And the reason why the
video title is that the 4-year cycle
strikes again, we've been covering this
like all year.
And and and how similar this stuff is.
And I know it's easy to mock it, and
it's easy to be like, well, you know,
you're just using three data points.
But, the counter view that the the the
critics will then say is that like, oh,
well, the last time Bitcoin did this in
2013, it rallied like 500%. So, we don't
have a lot of data. We can admit that.
We're just doing the best we can.
And one of the things I would say
is that everything that's played out
this year is essentially a a less
volatile version of what happened in
2018. And and I know like people can
look at this and say, well, it's easy
now,
uh but but we've been saying it all
year, right? I mean, look at this. You
had a low in February of 2018,
and then you had a higher February 2026.
And then you had a higher low in late
March, early April. And then a higher
low in late March, early April 2026. And
then Bitcoin rallied to the 200-day
moving average or the bear market
resistance band in 2018 in May.
And and it did the same thing in 2026,
right? Like it's it's the same thing.
And then after all that played out,
Bitcoin then swept the February low in
June.
Which is what it just did again. And
look when Bitcoin started to get a
countertrend rally, It was in early July
and then like the second and third week
of July, Bitcoin got a pullback and then
got a larger move back up in in the late
July and then it gave it all back in
August.
So,
it it's hard I mean like it it just
seems like the 4-year cycle strikes
again. Not only did Bitcoin find a low
at around the same time,
late June, early July, which again you
could say is coincidental, but the low
price that formed the local low was
57,000.
And in 2018,
I mean, what was it? Guess.
In 2018,
it was 5,700.
It's just a pattern, guys. Like I mean,
it's just a pattern. It's the same
pattern over and over again. Like what
are the chances that in in 2018, Bitcoin
would find a low in February, higher low
in late March, early April, lower high
in May, sweep the low in June, and the
low in June happened to be 5,700. And
then in 2026, it does the same thing. A
low in February,
a higher low in late March, early April,
a lower high in May at the 200-day
moving average. You sweep the low in
June. You sweep the February low in June
and then it just happens to be 57,000.
10x what it was in 2018.
I'm not suggesting that it's going to
always play out the same way. I think it
will
take a detour. Uh but the detour I think
it's going to take, I want to I want to
explain right now.
If you look at the year-to-date ROI of
Bitcoin in 2026
and compare it to 2018, you can see how
the lows are aligning, right? Your
February low, your higher low in in late
March, early April, right? You can see
that. You can pretty clearly see that.
Your higher low here. Your lower high in
May. Your lower low in June. And then
you get this Look at this low right here
that forms. It's the same day, right?
The last day of June. The last day of
June. You get a rally on up. You get a
brief pullback into like mid-July,
probably around the release of the
inflation report, and then you get a
larger move up.
Maybe we get a larger move up because
the catalyst that caused inflation, the
inflation spike to begin with, oil and
the geopolitical crisis, maybe that's no
longer a catalyst. And and then Bitcoin
could rally on that later in the year.
But the thing is is like Bitcoin could
go all the way back up to the 200-day
moving average, and it still hasn't
broken anything that it did in 2018.
I'm not suggesting that you can't buy
Bitcoin now, right? I mean, normally the
best strategy is to just DCA Bitcoin in
the second half of midterm years. And
given the fact that Bitcoin found a new
low on July 1st, I would say that was
pretty good a pretty good view to say,
"Look, ignore Bitcoin for the first half
of the midterm year, and then just kind
of DCA it in the second half of the year
if you want to position, and then hope
it works out." Yes, Bitcoin could go
lower later in the year. But look at
this.
You see how it would rally up to that
200-day moving average in like late
July, early August? Maybe it does the
same thing. By picking some up, at least
you're not sitting there wondering if
you missed the low,
but if you you know, if you pick a
little bit up, you're still probably
hoping that eventually it comes back
down to earth so you can load up even
more.
So again,
you know, the the the the critics have
access to the same charts that I have
access to.
They just weren't willing to to call for
this stuff, right? They were unwilling
to say that Bitcoin would would drop
back down because they were too busy
finding relationships between like the
ISM and and the money supply, stuff that
didn't really matter for for Bitcoin
this year.
And and I pointed that out at the
beginning of the year as well.
In 2014, Bitcoin went down, the ISM went
up.
And in 2015, the ISM went down, and
Bitcoin went up, right? So, you can't
always look for soft macro data to
support a bull or bear thesis for
Bitcoin.
The 4-year cycle has continued to play
out. Where I think this will eventually
deviate is I think Bitcoin will likely
form a low
before December. Cuz in 2018, it took
until December to form the low. So,
people keep saying like, well, you know,
it has to be different.
They're right. I think they're right.
Like, I think it will be different. But,
I think it'll be different because
Bitcoin will probably break below these
you know, below
um this this pattern before November.
And the reason I think it could happen
as early as October
is because the top was in October. And
and normally the Bitcoin bear markets
are about 1 year. Now, there is an
exception. Um the one in 2014 was a
little longer than a year. So, it it is
possible that Bitcoin could bottom later
in Q4. You know, it could be December.
But, I think October has to be a
candidate month for a low. And if that's
the case, then it would
take a detour
from that.
It's just remarkable. I mean, it it 2026
has just been a less volatile version of
2018. And one of the reasons it's been a
less volatile version
is because in 2018
we had a euphoric top.
Imagine how you would feel right now
if the top had been at 200k rather than
126.
Because if you think about it, I mean,
in 2018, the top was
about 20k. And then the lows we were
forming through the year were 6k.
This time, the top was 126 or so, and
then the lows we're forming are at 60.
So, the reason this feels a lot worse is
because we didn't get that final rally
up to 120 where you had a rotation into
altcoins. That's the reason it feels
worse. We didn't get that. Instead, it
came down.
And and you you basically bottomed on or
you topped on apathy rather than
euphoria where there's no rotation.
But other than that, everything
continues to play out.
The way I like to think about it is like
windows of strength and windows of
weakness. And usually July provides a
brief window of strength.
In in the midst of a larger window of
weakness. We did a video on this a few
months ago a couple months ago saying
that look, mid like mid-May to like the
end of June is a is a window of
weakness.
Now, July is often a window of strength.
There can still be a little bit of a
pullback that forms a higher low,
but that's when that window of strength
is usually occurs in mid-term years. Uh
could be around that July time frame.
But then usually we just give it back
into August and September and perhaps
we'll put that final low in October. So,
I would argue
that the four-year cycle the the
four-year cycle strikes again. And the
four-year cycle doesn't mean down only,
right? It means that there's this like
there's this cadence to when the lows
occur. And and you know, I think the
biggest critics of the four-year cycle
so far this year
uh have used every countertrend rally to
dunk on anyone calling for the four-year
cycle. And then when when the four-year
cycle didn't continue to play out,
um
you know, they then go ad hominem and
and stop attacking the the narrative and
attack the person.
But I would implore all of them to just
look at the charts and look at the data
and say, "Look,
this is what the charts have told us for
a long time.
I don't have any you know, it's not like
I feel like it's not like I
intrinsically think that it should play
out like this, right? It's not like I
think I I don't know why. I'm going to
make it more complicated than it has to
be or at least I used to.
But then eventually you're like, "What's
the point? What's the point of deriving
all these like macro relationships and
stuff when it just keeps playing out in
in a fairly
fairly predictable way? And at some
point the four-year cycle will break,
probably.
And when it does, I will change my
strategy. But until that time, I think
you defer to the four-year cycle. You
look for You look for those windows of
strength. You look for the windows of
weakness. The four-year cycle would say
that a low in in the markets would occur
in in the second half of midterm years.
Um more than likely, and and that's what
I'm going to stick with. But those are
my views. Thank you guys for tuning in.
Subscribe. Give the video a thumbs up.
Check out the sale on ITC premium.
Uh but most importantly, I'd love to see
a lot of you guys at the conference. So,
please check it out if you're
interested. Um we have it in Miami,
November 21st. The whole thing will be
The 20th through the 22nd, but the main
conference day uh is the 21st. So, hope
to see you guys there. I'll see you guys
next time. Bye.